In this video, we are going to cover
number 34 here. We want to create some
specialties and add those to vets upon
startup so I'm going to go in here to
GitHub. Assign it to me for right now to
indicate that I am working on it.
Let's toggle on over to IntelliJ here
and what we want to do is modify. I'm
going to come down here to the source main java
bootstrap. Going to the DataLoader.
What we want to do is set
up some specialties and then we're going
to add them to owners, so let's go in
here. I want to show you something
inside it here in Spring Pet Clinic. Wait.
Get back to the root here. Inside of
the reference application under source
main resources, we have a db folder.
The db folder we're holding some SQL
files. I'm just going to take a look
to see what they're doing. Just as a
side note, we are going to get into this
coming up in the course. I'm not showing
you this yet but Spring Boot will accept
two files. One is a data SQL and one is a
schema SQL. I'm not going to dive into
that too much right now but I want to
look at the data SQL. This is how
they are choosing to initialize their
data, so what I want to do, I'm going to
mimic what they're doing here. They
are adding specialties of radiology,
surgery, and dentistry. So let's go ahead
and add that. I'm going to set it up so we
add these specialties. Let's come over
here to our application.
Let's see here. We had radiology.
Make sure I'm spelling that right. I know
I almost never use that word. So
radiology, yes.
So like so and
let's go ahead. I'm going to create
the other ones real quick.
Let's create surgery.
I like to have that capitalized, and then
finally, we have
dentistry.
I am cutting and pasting. Do not do
this at home. As I always tell you,
don't do as I do, do as I say, right. So
this sets those up. These create the
objects but we're not persisting those
yet so what we want to do is bring in
that service.
Why don't you coming out SpecialtyService?
I don't. I want to be consistent
here so I called that SpecialtiesService
so let me make sure of the model here, so
Specialty, SpecialtyService. Let's
come in here and refactor that.
We'll rename that just to be consistent.
SpecialtyService, so rather than use the
plural, I mean I use singular there, just
be mainly to be consistent because we
have all the other properties are
singular so make it that way and
especially map service so that is
all consistent now.
Why aren't you coming up?
Not sure why that wasn't happy before as
far as coming up. Maybe I fat fingered
something. Let's go ahead and now I'm
going to go in and add in a constructor
parameter, so I just did command enter
there to bring up the help. We'll go
ahead and add that in. Refactor that. So
now, this will get an instance of that so
we can come down here and now I can say...
I just want to make sure that I get
the saved version.
I need to do the same for the other
ones.
Remember, what we're doing is we're
going through and we're persisting that
to our map.
When we persisted to the map, that's
when we get the ID value. Once we get
to start implementing JPA,
this is going to behave very similar.
So we have savedRadiology, savedSurgery, savedDentistry, so that sets those up. These
objects will have the ID value
established so that is all good. That's
exactly what we want. So now, we want to
come down here to our vetService as
well.
Let's say vet1 getSpecialties().add() and we'll do
savedRadiology. That will add
specialty to vet number one, so Sam X
will be an expert on that. Let's come
over here. vet2
and I'm going to getSpecialties() dot then
add and let's say that
Jessie is an expert in vet surgeon.
One thing I want double check here. Let's
come in take a look at Specialty.
Okay, so I wanted to verify that we are
initializing it to a HashSet so that's
good. So when we do the getSpecialties(),
this properties are already initialized
so that that is exactly what we want
there.
Let's come back over here and double
check our work.
I think everything looks good so
let's go ahead and start this. Make sure
that we're not blowing up at this point.
Again, I'm just double checking make sure
that we're not throwing an exception on
startup, that we are properly
persisting our specialties. Now it looks
like we did. Further down on the course,
we're going to get into testing so we'll
be setting this up. But right now, we do
have a good set up here. There's one.
I'm going to stop this. There's one other
refactoring I want to do
and really what's happening here is that
we are doing a run set up. Let's come
up here. I'm going to highlight all this .
I come up here refactor.
Extract to method.
I'm going to move this into a private
method so I'm going to do all the data into
a load data method, so refactor. You can
see there that that IntelliJ refactored
that. What I want to do here is makes
a sensible thing because right now I'm
kind of laying the groundwork. I
want to be able to reuse this class once
we bring in Spring Data JPA
and start persisting this with an actual
database. But obviously, we don't want to
run this every time. If we get into
something that's persisting data, this is
going to work great as long as we're
bringing things up and down and there's
nothing there. When we have a persistent
database, what's going to happen is it's
going to try to create these values
multiple times, so every time we start it
up we'd get a whole new set of data and
then we drop it. Database stays there. If
we're using MySQL, then we start it
up again
and we're going to re get it again. So what
we want to do here, let's come in. I just
make a reasonable assumption to say if
there's no pet types. Let's do...
Let's see petService
and I just do a find all
dot size().
Let's say
if count equals zero, we want to run load
data so that should work. Let's double
check that. I'm going to start this up
and make sure that that is running in
fact.
You can see that we got our system
out
loaded owners, loaded pets.
There's our system.out statement so
that tells us because I'm seeing
this output down here in the log that
loaded owners loaded vets, that our
system out did run, so my logic is good.
We did get a findAll() size(). An account
was equal to zero. So now, I'm testing
to say count is equal to zero and then I'm
going to call the load data method.
This is exactly what we want.
Right now, our data loader, our bootstrap
data loader,
that is going to run on startup. This guy
should be generic enough so when we
switch over our services to be using JPA
upcoming in the course, everything's
got to run happily even if we are
running against MySQL so I kind of
set ourselves up for that in the
future here. Just to quickly recap
what we did here. Okay, I refactored the
specialty service name.
I had mistakenly had specialties. That
was a mistake in my part, so I refactored
that and then in the data loader, we
refactored did load all the loading
logic into a private method called loadData().
We added this section here. I'll
clean out that empty space. We set up
the new Specialty. We have two
specialties being used. You can see that
savedDentistry. That specialty is
not being used at this point in time, and
then, we came down here to the vets.
Let's double check. The one last thing
that we want to do here is we don't
necessarily need to set that up so let's
come in here, double-check our VetMapService. Remember, when we did the
owner service, when we're adding in
the pets, I want to do something similar
here
so when I do a save, let's expand that
out.
I actually want to do a vet service.
I'm sorry.
Come in here to the vet service. I'm
going to say if
that is greater than zero, we need to
check those specialties. So now, when I
say object getSpecialties()
forEach
like so if
and if ID has now been set,
we want to go ahead and set it.
That will save that. And then we
also want to save it to our service. If we
come back over here to
our owner service,
let's see here
and going to double-check the AbstractMapService that's going to go ahead
and implement that next ID for so that's
exactly what we want to do here. Come
back over here to the owner service.
You can see here that we are doing that.
Double-checking my work here.
See here how I'm saving the pet and then
getting the save pet and getting the ID,
so that's exactly what I want to be
doing here in the vet service. If that
is equal to null, I'm going to say Specialty
and we need to bring in the SpecialtyService.
Going to add in a constructor for that. That
will get auto wire by Spring, so Spring's
going to manage this. I can say
specialtyService.save().
So now, that's going to create a ID
on the Specialty, the saved
Specialty. We want to make sure and
this is just some defensive coding here
so we're going to go in and say
specialty dot
setId() equals to
like so. Now, if we do get a vet object
that has specialties that I have not been
persisted, we are going to go ahead and
make sure that that ID is saved so...
Had a typo there.
So now, that's going to set things up
to make sure that is all happy. So
come in, we're going to go to save it,
walk the specialties. If there's any IDs
that are null, we're going to go in and save
that specialty or specialty
Service, that will create the ID for
us. Then it will come back and make
sure that that specialty in the list
does in fact have that ID value and then
the entire vet object, we are going to go
ahead and save that. So that will make
everything all happy for us. Some of
this were kind of mimicking some of the
things that Hibernate is going to be
doing for us, so if we have unpersisted
objects that are nested like this,
Hibernate inside of JPA and Hibernate, a
lot of that will be taken care of for us.
We're going through a little extra hoops
here because we are using HashMap so it
is up to us to implement that logic. So I
think that is all good. I am going to
just rerun those. Make sure that we are
not tossing any exceptions on startup.
Alright! So everything loaded up
normally again. Come back over here.
That was number 34.
Come in here. Commit
that.
That was number 34.
Go ahead and commit that to GitHub and call
this one done.